---
layout: post
title:      "'What programming is to me'"
date:       2018-01-09 21:42:37 +0000
permalink:  what_programming_is_to_me
---


" A couple of months ago(before I even knew about this program), I went job hunting. My job trained me in a skill that   
was specialized to the point where I could not use the techincal knowledge I learned as experience for other jobs. Essentially with job hunting, I was starting out fresh. I also noticed how little a lot of the jobs offered in the form of starting salary. I was willing(and still am) willing to take a little bit of a paycut to have a job where I am not traveling all of the time, but a lot of the wages weren't even enough for me to live off of comfortably. I began to open my eyes and ears to any opportunity that presented itself and I saw the advertisement for Flatrion's free bootcamp prep. One of the things I learned through it is that programming is more than just a job or even a career; it is a skill, it is a passion, and it is a community. It it something that made me want to get up in the morning and rush to my computer. It is something that consumed my mind. I don't see programming as just a means to change jobs or even careers, I see it as the start to a new life."

" For my current job(as of the time of writing this blog), I install industrial scanner/camera systems; I also do troubleshooting and maintenance on them. My troubleshooting skills have vastly improved from all of the problems that I have encountered during my time with the company. However, all of the scanner/camera knowledge is not transferrable to most other jobs. It is obviously a no-brainer to say that programming is a skill that can be listed on a resume, and that learning multiple languages will help to window-dress your resume. But to leave it at that is not doing it justice. Skills are something that can be improved. Skills allow us the opportunity to strive and push for more. One of my skills is that I play drums. If i were in a band, I could play our songs, practice, and perform at shows and maybe get better at a very slow rate, but if I truly wanted to improve my craft, I would need to practice outside of the band on my own and learn new techniques and take on trying to learn new songs. Much like drumming, you will not get the most out of programming unless you do it outside of work and take on projects. That is only however, if you have the heart and desire to do that."

" When I started the bootcamp prep course, I was in a bit of a rut. When I arrived home from a job, I would sit down and watch tv or play video games. I would sleep in and neglect my responsibilities. I had several projects I wanted to start on, but when things got tough or there was a stumbling block, I would just give up. As I went through the prep course and made progress, I felt a renewed energy inside of me. I would wake up in the morning at a reasonable time and try to get some coding in. If I was out of town, I would wake up earlier to try and get a couple of lessons in. I could see this leaking into other areas of my life as well. I became better at my job, I did more around the house, and I was more active. I loved it so much that I bought a macbook since I read multiple places that it was great for coding and was certainly better than the computer I was using. I also got my fiance to agree to name our dog Ruby. I have learned that programming is hard, but I have found and love as passion for it that helps me persevere."

" I was stuck on one of the lessons and tried literally everything that I could think of. I was out of town and finished a job early and went to the airport and decided that I was absolutely determined to fix my problem. After about an hour of me trying to solve it with no success and my stubborness to not ask for help, I finally used the ask a question feature. The people on there responded quickly and I put my code on there. The problem was that I did not use the back tick. It was such a simple solution that fixed a problem I had been stuck on for about a week. It wasn't the only simple mistake I made and I know it won't be the last. The people on there who have responded have been extremely helpful. They also did not judge me for my mistakes. I have learned from a very early stage that everyone is helpful and I'm sure most understand that everyone started from the beginning at some point."
"One of the things I look forward to is collaborating with others on big projects. I have never been one for teamwork or to work well with others, but I know that programming and being a part of something where everyone can contribute can be an exception for me. I absolutely relish the idea of being a part of a great project and learning from others and maybe having others learn from things that I do. I love the opportunity to meet friends and I'm sure that with a lot of programmers, I don't have to hide my geeky side. With resources like Github, Slack, and especially Flatiron, I get the opportunity to network with others and make new friends. Programming is something that provides these opportunities"

" I have learned that programming is more than just problem solving or creating things. Programming is also an artform where your personality can come out, it is something that you can make a major part of your life, and it is a means to allow you to network with others. I can't wait to learn more and be able to utilize programming for everything it is."
